README.md, before:

# mercadolivre-scraping

**Disclaimer:**
_This is a personal project intended for educational purposes only._

## Overview

This project leverages Python's **Scrapy** library to perform web scraping on Mercado Livre, specifically collecting information about **5-string bass guitars**.

If you'd like to scrape data for a different item, just update the start_urls attribute located at:

```bash
extraction/extraction/spiders/mercadolivre.py
```

## How to Install and Run the project

It is my personal recommendation that you make a new virtual Python environment for every project you run. To do so, open your preferred terminal and run the commands:

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/heitornolla/mercadolivre-scraping.git
```

### 2. Move to the project folder

```bash
cd mercadolivre-scraping
```

### 3. Define the local Python version

```bash
pyenv local 3.12.1
```

### 4. Create a new Python environment

You can do this with Venv with the command

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

or use other environment managers, such as Conda

If you opted for Venv, activate the environment with

```bash
source .venv/Scripts/activate
```

### 5. Install the Requirements

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 6. Run the Project!

Run the script.py file and have fun!
If you obtain any errors, delete or rename the files on the _data_ folder


## Technologies Used

Python 3.12.1

Scrapy for the Web Scraping

Pandas for Data Transformation

Streamlit for the dashboard

Commit message:

Added Image to README (#4)
* Added screenshot

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

README.md, after:

# mercadolivre-scraping

**Disclaimer:**
_This is a personal project intended for educational purposes only._

## Overview

This project leverages Python's **Scrapy** library to perform web scraping on Mercado Livre, specifically collecting information about **5-string bass guitars**.

If you'd like to scrape data for a different item, just update the start_urls attribute located at:

```bash
extraction/spiders/mercadolivre.py
```

### Dashboard
The dashboard currently looks like this:

!['Screenshot of the dashboard'](assets/screenshot.png)

I will add more analysis to the dashboard as the project grows.

## How to Install and Run the project

It is my personal recommendation that you make a new virtual Python environment for every project you run. To do so, open your preferred terminal and run the commands:

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/heitornolla/mercadolivre-scraping.git
```

### 2. Move to the project folder

```bash
cd mercadolivre-scraping
```

### 3. Define the local Python version

```bash
pyenv local 3.12.1
```

### 4. Create a new Python environment

You can do this with Venv with the command

```bash
python -m venv .venv
```

or use other environment managers, such as Conda

If you opted for Venv, activate the environment with

```bash
source .venv/Scripts/activate
```

### 5. Install the Requirements

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 6. Run the Project!

Run the script.py file and have fun!

## Technologies Used

Python 3.12.1

Scrapy for the Web Scraping

Pandas for Data Transformation

Streamlit for the dashboard
